The **CZ-600 Rifle**, known in-game as the **CZ-600**, is a bolt-action sniper rifle utilizing the 5.56mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0) "A Sailor's Dream" update on February 25th, 2024. It has lower damage and range, but a shorter firing delay and less recoil compared to other sniper rifles.

# Background

The CZ-600 is a versatile firearm designed for various applications. It boasts sub-MOA accuracy, making it ideal for customization. Its lightweight aluminum receiver and semi-heavy barrel provide a balanced weight-reduction suitable for field use. The rifle features a semi-cold-forged, threaded barrel with robust capabilities, alongside sling swivel studs and scope mount rails included. With a polymer stock and detachable box-style magazine, the CZ-600 promises reliability and performance for a wide range of shooting needs.

# Strategies

## Using
- Being a sniper rifle, take advantage of the high accuracy, speed, and damage for each shot to snipe enemies from a safer distance.
  - If you are skilled enough, it can be used at close-range, though this can be dangerous if your opponent possesses a weapon designed for close-range combat such as the [Model 37](/weapons/guns/model_37).
- Keep your distance by running away while shooting, as well as quickswitching if your opponent rushes you.
- Unlike other sniper rifles, the CZ-600's fast fire rate allows it to be played more similarly to a DMR instead of quickswitching each shot. However, this requires aim and can leave you vulnerable, so it is generally advised not to utilize this strategy in most circumstances.

## Countering
- Don't rush your opponent directly. If you're planning on rushing someone with a CZ-600, move around obstacles so that it's less likely for them to hit you.
- If you have a sniper of your own, like a [Mosin-Nagant](/weapons/guns/mosin_nagant) and a large scope multiplier, you can engage them from a far distance.

# Obtaining
The CZ-600 is obtainable rarely in [Crates](/obstacles/crates). It is also able to be found in [Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrops), [Viking Chests](/obstacles/viking_chest), and [River Chests](/obstacles/river_chest), but it always spawns in  the [Lux Crate](/obstacles/lux_crate) located in the [Red Tugboat](/buildings/tugboat_red).

# Trivia
- The CZ600 is the first 5.56mm sniper added to the game.

## History
- [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0)
  - Added
