<Event />

The **Beretta DT-11**, known in-game as the **DT-11**, is a double-barrel shotgun utilizing the 12-gauge ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0) "Open Season" update on October 27th, 2024. The DT-11 features higher range than its contemporary, the [Flues](/weapons/guns/flues), but at the cost of damage and maneuverability.

# Background
The DT-11 is Beretta's continuation of the DT-10 line of over-and-under shotguns. The DT-10 was released in 2000 and the DT-11 succeeded it in 2014. It is a highly regarded, albeit very expensive competition shotgun, with highly tuned ergonomics and special bore profile that make it much easier to handle.

# Strategies
## Using
- Many players make the mistake of trying to use the DT-11 like a long-range [Flues](/weapons/guns/flues). While both are indeed double-barrel shotguns, the Flues has a recoil multiplier of 0.8 while the DT-11 has one of 0.6. This makes it far less maneuverable than the Flues, and coupled with its lower damage output, make using it like a Flues a terrible idea.
- Instead, treat the DT-11 more like a [M3K](/weapons/guns/m3k) that only has a capacity of 2. 
  - You may want to try and quickswitch the DT-11, or maximize DPS by shooting both shots at once. Which one to choose depends on the situation.
- The DT-11 can only hold two rounds, so if you only have 1 loaded, make sure to reload as soon as you can.
  - Take cover if reloading in the middle of a fight.
  - Be very careful with your shots, as the long reload time and 2 rounds make the Flues unforgiving.
- Carry a secondary weapon to weaken/finish off opponents.
- Due to the low damage output, the DT-11 is not very good at camping in [Bushes](/obstacles/bush).
- The DT-11 is overall not a great option past the early game as it struggles against both armor and cover, so replace it with essentially any other shotgun if you find one.

## Countering
- If the DT-11 user fires both of their shots, take advantage of the long reload time and attack while they are vulnerable.
- Depending on the opponent's skill, they may miss one or both of their shots. Strafe them and try to make them miss, then attack while they reload.
- If at long-range, try strafing to make your opponent miss.
  - This works better with high adrenaline.
- Use a longer-range weapon, such as DMR or sniper.
- Most other shotguns are superior in damage and/or DPS than the DT-11, and the M3K has over 4 times the magazine capacity.

## Obtaining
The DT-11 is a only available on the Harvest Map, where it is a very common shotgun can be readily found at many common loot sources.

# Trivia
- The DT-11 is the second double-barrel shotgun added to Suroi, after the Flues.
  - Unlike the Flues, which is side-by-side, the DT-11 has its barrels arranged over-and-under.
- "DT" stands for "Detachable Trigger".

# History
- [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0)
  - Added