The **Iver Johnson Arms HP-18**, known in-game as the **HP18**, is a common semi-automatic shotgun firing 12-gauge ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.7.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.7.0) "Geared Up" update on July 9th, 2023.

# Background

The HP-18 is a cheaper entry-level shotgun offered by Iver Johnson Arms. It has features, such as a 2-piece detachable pistol stock, a Picatinny rail, and a flashlight rail. It is offered by a variety of dealers, such as Palmetto State Armory and Sportsman's Outdoor Superstore.

# Strategies

## Using

- The HP18 has a very high spread, which makes it necessary to get close to your opponent to be used effectively.
- Like most shotguns, you can pair the HP18 with a long-range gun to cover both CQC (Close Quarters Combat)and long-range scenarios.
- The HP18 is a semi-automatic weapon, so to achieve the highest DPS you must fire as fast as possible.
  - However, be careful with your shots or you will quickly run out of ammo.
- Late game, the HP18 is not as viable due to its low damage and high spread. This makes it ineffective against stronger armor.
  - If possible, replace the HP18 for another shotgun, such as the [Model 37](/weapons/guns/model_37) or the [M3K](/weapons/guns/m3k)
- As with other shotguns, use high adrenaline to help rush your opponent. Switch to your secondary gun or reload one shell to finish off an opponent.

## Countering

- The best way to counter the HP18 is to stay out of its short range. Use mid-range or long-range weapons, such as assault rifles, DMRs, and snipers to kill your opponent.
- If you do end up close to an HP18 user, don't try to melee them, as getting close could result in all of the pellets hitting you.
  - You can do this if the player has little armor and is not very skilled, but it is risky.
- Any other shotgun will overpower the HP18 at close range as well as mid-range.
- Take cover behind obstacles, such as [Rocks](/obstacles/rock). The HP18's 0.5x obstacle multiplier makes the gun weak against cover.
  - If using a shotgun against the HP18, keep engagements one shot long if possible; the HP18's advantage is its autofire, and keeping engagements short deprives it of this advantage.

# Obtaining

The HP18 is the most common shotgun available on the normal map. It can be found as ground loot, in different Crates, and many other places.

# Trivia

- The HP18 replaced the now-removed [940 Pro](/weapons/guns/940pro) in update [v0.7.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.7.0).
- The HP18 fires birdshot, which explains its low damage and high pellet count.

# History
- [v0.19.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.19.0)
  - Standing spread decreased to 18° (from 24°)
  - Moving spread decreased to 20° (from 28°)
- [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0)
  - Standing spread increased to 24° (from 15°)
  - Moving spread increased to 28 (from 24°)
  - Jitter radius increased to 1.75 (from 1.5)
  - Center jitter on muzzle enabled
  - Damage decreased to 4 (from 5)
- [v0.12.3](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.3)
  - Standing spread decreased to 15° (from 30°)
  - Moving spread decreased to 22° (from 37°)
- [v0.12.1](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.1)
  - Move speed penalty increased to 8% (from 5%)
- [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
  - Updated world image
  - Length decreased to 8 (from 10.2)
  - Jitter set to 1.5
  - Left fist moved to (120, -1) (from (150, -3))
  - Right fist x-offset decreased to 40 (from 75)
  - Right fist z-index set to 4
  - Casing spawn y-offset increased to 0.6 (from 0.5)
  - Tracer length decreased to 0.5 (from 0.7)
- [v0.10.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
  - Standing accuracy decreased to 30° (from 15°)
  - Moving spread decreased to 37° (from 22°)
  - Length decreased to 10.2 (from 11)
  - Added casing particles
- [v0.9.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.9.0)
  - Projectiles per shot decreased to 18 (from 20)
  - Obstacle damage multiplier decreased to 0.5 (from 1)
  - Hand positions swapped
  - Image x-offset decreased to 100 (from 115)
  - Image y-offset decreased to 0 (from 3)
- [v0.8.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.8.0)
  - Move speed penalty set to 5%
  - Reload time decreased to 725ms (from 850ms)
  - Pellet damage increased to 5 (from 3)
  - Standing spread set to 15°
  - Moving spread decreased to 22° (from 30°)
  - Quickswitch enabled
  - Length decreased to 11 (from 12)
  - Ammo spawned with gun decreased to 15 (from 20)
  - Range decreased to 40 (from 48)
  - Obstacle damage multiplier decreased to 1 (from 2)
  - Bullet velocity decreased to 0.12 (from 0.35)
  - Tracer length set to 0.7
- [v0.7.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.7.0)
  - Added (replaced [940 Pro](/weapons/guns/940pro))

# Gallery

<Gallery
  images={[
    {
      url: "/img/articles/weapons/guns/hp18/hp18_ground.png",
      author: "1092384",
      caption: "A player finding a HP-18 on the ground in v0.14.0",
    },
  ]}
/>
