The **M16A4** is a burst-fire assault rifle utilizing 5.56mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the v0.5.0 "Locked & Loaded" update on June 24, 2023.

# Background

The M16 series of rifles is based off of the larger AR-10 series of rifles, both designed by Eugene Stoner in the late 1950s. It replaced the heavier M14 rifle as the primary infantry rifle and was designed around the brand-new 5.56x45mm NATO cartridge. The M16 family of rifles and its variants see use in many militaries, police, and security forces around the globe.

# Strategies

# Using

- The M16 is a very strong weapon due to its quick fire rate, accuracy, and high damage.
- The burst feature allows you to output high amounts of damage and recede quickly, which means the M16A4 can stand up to guns like the [MCX Spear](weapons/guns/mcx_spear).
- Make use of prediction and tracking to the best of your ability, especially at longer ranges.
- This weapon pairs well with a shotgun such as the [M3K](/weapons/guns/m3k).

# Countering

- Hide behind cover and take short opportunities to chip away at the opponent's health.
- If approaching, make sure that you strafe as much as you can to throw off your opponent's shots.
  - Once at close range, use a high-DPS weapon like a shotgun or SMG to kill the M16A4 user.

# Obtaining

- The M16 is a rare weapon, being as rare as the [ARX-160](/weapons/guns/arx160), [MCX Spear](/weapons/guns/mcx_spear) and the [Flues](/weapons/guns/flues). Thus, it is best obtained from rare loot sources like [Flint](/obstacles/flint_crate) or [AEGIS Crates](/obstacles/aegis_crate).

<Obtaining item="m16a4" />

# Trivia

- There are currently 8 million M16s in the world
- Eugene Stoner also designed the [SR-25](/weapons/guns/sr25) and the [Stoner 63](/weapons/guns/stoner_63)
- The M16A4 is the fourth iteration of the M16 series
  - The M16A4 in-game is a Safe/Semi/Burst international export version produced by Colt, with the code RO905 or R0905

# History

- v0.13.0
  - Fire delay increased to 75ms (from 30ms)
  - Burst delay decreased to 250ms (from 350ms)
- v0.12.1
  - Fire delay decreased to 30ms (from 60ms)
  - Increased switch delay to 400ms (from 300ms)
  - Decreased firing speed penalty to 25% (from 30%)
  - Decreased recoil duration to 350ms (from 900ms)
  - Decreased burst cooldown to 350ms (from 400ms)
- v0.11.0
  - World image updated
- v0.9.0
  - Moving spread decreased to 2.5º (from 1.5º)
  - Standing spread decreased to 1º (from 0.5º)
  - Obstacle multiplier increased to 1.5 (from 1.4)
  - Damage decreased to 21 (from 22)
- v0.8.0
  - Fire delay decreased to 60ms (from 90)
  - Reload time decreased to 2.2 seconds (from 2.5)
  - Obstacle multiplier decreased to 1.4 (from 2)
  - Move speed penalty set to 8%
  - Damage decreased to 22 (from 24)
  - Bullet speed decreased to 0.3 (from 0.35)
  - Range increased to 180 (from 96)
  - Burst cooldown decreased to 400ms (from 600)
  - Set standing spread to 0.5º
  - Moving spread increased to 1.5º (from 2º)
- v0.7.0
  - Damage increased to 24 (from 18)
- v0.6.0
  - Reload speed decreased to 2.5 seconds (from 3)
  - Damage decreased to 18 (from 20)
- v0.5.0
  - Added
