The **Nagant M1895 Revolver**, known in-game as the **M1895**, is a single-action revolving pistol utilizing 7.62mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0) "Making Waves" update on October 22nd, 2023.

# Background

The M1895 was designed by the Belgian Léon Nagant for the Russian Empire. It is notable for its use of a special "gas-seal" system, which boosted the muzzle velocity, allowed it to be suppressed, and eliminated finger injuries. However, this came at the cost of reload time, both ejecting and reloading the cartridges. The M1895 was widely used in both Russian and Soviet forces, up until it was officially replaced by the Makarov pistol in 1952. It continued to see use in Russia officially as late as 2009.


# Strategies

## Using

- The M1895 is a great pestering tool. To take advantage of this, make sure to keep a distance between you and the enemy.
- If the enemy has a level 2 Vest or higher, it is advised that you run away instead of trying to pester the enemy, as this may slow you down, allowing the enemy a chance at you.
- The M1895 is a decent weapon, especially when its rarity is taken into account, as it is the second most common weapon in the game behind the [G19](/weapons/guns/g19).
- Dual M1895s work well when used as a DMR, as they have decent damage output. Just mind the long reload time.
  - Because of the long reload, don't waste your shots with Dual M1895s, destroying cover like you would with a normal DMR.
  - Find a 4x or better scope to take advantage of Dual M1895s.

## Countering

- Make sure to close the distance between you and the M1895 user.
  - This is relatively easy to do due to the M1895's low damage output.
  - Strafing is a good strategy to avoid shots due to the high accuracy.
- Dual M1895s have a very long reload time, so hide behind cover to waste an opponent's shots and attack up close while they reload.
  - Watch out, as they may have a secondary weapon ready to use.

# Obtaining

The M8195 is one of the most common weapons guns in the game and can be found in many places around the map.

# Trivia

- Initially, the M1895 would eject casings after each shot. Being a revolver, this is not possible in real life.
  - This was fixed in [v0.12.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.0), and now all 7 casings are ejected after reloading.
- The M1895 is the third pistol in the game, and the first revolver.
- Léon Nagant's brother, Émile Nagant, helped in the design of the [Mosin-Nagant](/weapons/guns/mosin_nagant).
- The M1895 has the highest damage per bullet of any pistol in Suroi.

# History

- [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0)
  - Casing type set to 7.62x38mmR
- [v0.15.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.15.0)
  - Casing velocity set to ([-8, -2], ±[2, 9])
- [v0.14.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.14.0)
  - Dual variant added
- [v0.12.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.0)
  - Casing spawn-on-reload enabled
  - Casing count set to 7
- [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
  - Added

# Gallery

<Gallery
  images={[
    {
      url: "/img/articles/weapons/guns/m1895/m1895_ground.png",
      author: "1092384",
      caption: "A player finding a M1895 on the ground in v0.14.0",
    },
  ]}
/>
