<Event />

The **Mossberg 590M "Shockwave"**, known in-game as the **M590M**, is a powerful pump-action shotgun firing explosive 12 Gauge ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0) "Open Season" update on October 27th, 2024. The M590M is similar to the [USAS-12](/weapons/guns/usas12), but has a smaller magazine capacity.

# Background
Released in 2018, the 590M "Shockwave" is Mossberg's double-stack mag-fed version of the popular Model 590 shotgun. The Model 590 and its variants are used by security/police, military, and special forces all around the world. It is a proven design that is extremely reliable in tough conditions. The 590M improves on the design, as the magazine location makes the gun better balanced for more accuracy.

# Strategies
## Using
- The M590M is very powerful in close to mid-range combat due to its high damage and explosive rounds.
  - Try and force your opponent to get close by taking cover against longer-range weapons in a [Building](/buildings) or behind indestructible objects.
- The explosion and shrapnel have a high obstacle multiplier. Use this to shred cover such as [Tree](/obstacles/tree) and [Rocks](/obstacles/rock).
  - Being splash damage, it can "go around" obstacles; in other words, you don't need to have a line of sight with your opponent to damage them. This is very powerful.
- Be careful not to accidentally damage yourself when using the M590M at close range.
- The M590M has a slow bullet speed, so you will need to lead your shots when firing at moving targets.
- Unlike the [USAS-12](/weapons/guns/usas12), which is automatic, the M590M is pump-action. This means that it is recommended to use quickswitching to avoid the slowdown applied when firing. This greatly increases your mobility and make you less of an easy target.
    - The USAS-12 is effective at spamming because being automatic, it has higher DPS. The M590M is different as it has a lower DPS because it is pump-action. Like the [Model 37](/weapons/guns/model_37), however, this does not make it any less of a bad weapon.
- You can pair the M590M with a sniper rifle such as the [Mosin Nagant](/weapons/guns/mosin_nagant) and quickswitch both to deal a lot of damage.

## Countering
- Close-range weapons such as the other shotguns, are a risk due to the high damage of the M590M
    - If you do choose to get up close, choose something with a high DPS like the [Vepr-12](/weapons/guns/vepr12).
- Use longer-range weapons such as DMRs or sniper rifles.
- Try and maintain high adrenaline, as it can help you dodge some of the M590M shots.
- Be wary of Buildings, as they amplify the effectiveness of the M590M's explosive rounds.

## Obtaining
The M590M only spawns on the Harvest Map, where it can rarely be found in [Gun Lockers](/obstacles/gun_locker), [Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrop_crate) [River Chests](/obstacles/river_chest), and [Viking Chests](/obstacles/viking_chest). It always spawns on a [Gun Mount](/obstacles/gun_mount) in the [Lodge](/buildings/lodge) and occasionally on the one in the [Plumpkin Bunker](/buildings/plumpkin_bunker). Additionally, the M590M spawns very rarely in the [Loot Tree](/obstacles/loot_tree) and extremely rarely as regular loot.

# Trivia
- In Suroi, the M590M fires FRAG-12 ammunition.
  - FRAG-12 is a specialized 12-gauge shell that contains a small amount of high-explosive.
  - The [USAS-12](/weapons/guns/usas12) also fires FRAG-12.

# History
- [v0.20.1](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0)
  - Range decreased to 60 (from 70)
- [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0)
  - Added