The **Heckler & Koch MG36**, known in-game as the **MG36**, is a LMG utilizing the 5.56mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.17.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.17.0) "Just the Two of Us" update on March 31st, 2024. The MG36 features a high fire rate and decent DPS, and has excellent mobility for a LMG.

# Background
- The Heckler & Koch G36 is an assault rifle chambered in 5.56x45mm NATO, developed by Heckler & Koch as a replacement for the aging G3 battle rifle after the cancelation of the astronomically expensive G11 program in 1990. The MG variant differs only slightly from the standard versions, with a heavier barrel for better performance in sustained fire roles, different optics, and a bipod for increased stability while firing prone.  Despite some major problems with overheating, the rifle has been very successful and is currently used by many military and law enforcement groups around the world. Most notably, it serves as the standard service rifle of the German and Spanish Armed Forces. 

# Strategies
## Using
- The MG36 has the slowdown and recoil of an assault rifle, making it a very maneuverable weapon. That and its high obstacle multiplier make it a very effective counter-sniper weapon.
- The MG36 has poor moving accuracy, so try to close range with your opponents before you open up.
- The MG36 will easily trump lower-tier ARs such as the [AUG](/weapons/guns/aug) and [AK-47](/weapons/guns/ak47) with its higher obstacle multiplier and magazine capacity.
But watch out for high-tier ARs such as the [M16A4](/weapons/guns/m16a4) and [MCX SPEAR](/weapons/guns/mcx_spear) as they have much higher damage and accuracy.

## Countering
- Hide behind indestructible cover such as shipping containers, to mitigate its counter obstacle power.
- Engage the user at longer range with a DMR or sniper.
- Go close range with a high DPS SMG or a shotgun.

# Obtaining
The MG36 is most easily found in special loot such as [AEGIS](/obstacles/aegis_crate) and [Flint Crates](/obstacles/flint_crate). It can also be rarely found from [Regular Crates](/obstacles/regular_crate) or as ground loot.

# Trivia
- The "MG" in "MG36" stands for "Maschinengewehr" which means "machine gun".
- The G36 rifle is currently being replaced by the M416 in the German Army because it suffers from accuracy problems at high temperatures.
- Stock G36 rifles cannot accept STANAG magazines, so the in-game variant has an aftermarket magazine well for its forty-round STANAG.

# History

- [v0.17.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.17.0)
  - Added