The **S.W.O.R.D Defense Systems MK18 Semi-Automatic Advanced Sniper Rifle**, known in-game as the **Mk-18 Mjölnir** or simply the **Mk-18**, is a DMR utilizing the .338 Lapua Magnum ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0) "Open Season" update on October 27th, 2024. The Mk-18 features very high damage and bullet velocity, similar to the [L115A1](/weapons/guns/l115a1).

# Background
The MK18 SA-ASR was designed as an anti-material rifle by S.W.O.R.D. Defense Systems in 2010, using a unique custom designed short-stroke gas piston system. It is more portable than many of its competitors while still offering performance closer to a heavier weapon. S.W.O.R.D. claims tht the MK18 can reliably engage targets beyond 1.609 kilometers (1 mile) depending on the ammunition.

# Strategies
## Using
- Despite technically being a DMR, the Mk-18 can also be treated like a sniper depending on the circumstances. Many of the same strategies that apply to the L115A1 also apply to the Mk-18.
- The Mk-18 only spawns with 20 rounds of .338 Lapua Magnum, so conserve your ammo and don't waste your shots.
- Try and get your opponent to slow themselves down in some way because it makes hitting your shots easier.
  - You can do this when your opponent is in water, shooting, or using a [Healing Item](/healing) (or any combination).
  - The best target is a player who is standing still (you may want to conserve your ammo, though).
- The Mk-18 works both close-range and long-range due to its very high DPS output.
  - Pair it with another high-damaging weapon, such as a sniper or a shotgun, to shred players.
- Depending on the situation, quickswitching may be ideal with the Mk-18 due to the high recoil.
    - If a fight requires more maneuverability (such as against other DMRs where strafing your opponent is a good strategy), quickswitching can achieve this at the cost of damage output.
    - If you're sniping people from long-range who are oblivious, using the Mk-18 as a DMR will kill them faster due to the high DPS.
- Be careful, as the unique bullet trail of .338 Lapua Magnum ammunition will give away what gun you have and might lead players to target you.
  - This can be useful for getting high kills if you are skilled enough.
- If you find a Mk-18 but have little to no ammunition, it probably isn't worth picking up, since your chance of coming across more ammo are fairly low.
  - You could, however, try and use it to bait other players into an ambush.
- Don't use the Mk-18 to try and destroy cover, as it wastes ammo.
  - However, if the opponent is near a [Barrel](/obstacles/barrel) or [Super Barrel](/obstacles/super_barrel) that is low on health and smoking, you can shoot it to do extra damage (though probably not as much as actually hitting them with the Mk-18).
- Use LMGs such as the [Stoner 63](/weapons/guns/stoner_63) to destroy cover at long range, and then pick off players with Mk-18.
  - You can also use assault rifles to weaken your opponent and then finish them off with the Mk-18.
- By hiding in a [Bush](/obstacles/bush) and camping, you can surprise your opponents and kill them before they can react.
- If you ever run low on .338 Lapua Magnum ammo, you can break [Ammo Crates](/obstacles/ammo_crate) using a [Maul](/weapons/melee/maul) or other piercing [Melee Weapon](/weapons/melee) to get extra ammo.
- If you can get the Infinite Ammo perk, this removes the headache about conserving ammunition and allows you more flexibility to spam and miss shots.

## Countering
- Use lots of adrenaline to move faster, strafe, and get the Mk-18 user to miss their bullets. This also wastes their ammunition.
- You can use cover to pretend to move out and get your opponent to shoot, but then move back and have the shot miss you.
- Although the Mk-18 does a lot of damage, it still isn't an instant kill, especially in the late game when you likely have high-tier [Armor](/equipment/armor).
- Watch out if you are at 8x or 15x range because the Mk-18 has a very fast bullet velocity.
- The Mk-18 can be unwieldy in CQC (Close Quarters Combat) due to its long barrel. Try using a high DPS weapon like a SMG or a shotgun. Weapons with short barrels, like the [Flues](/weapons/guns/flues) work best for this.
- Snipers like the [Tango 51](/weapons/guns/tango_51), while not as high damaging as the Mk-18, can still pack quite a punch against an opponent (especially in dual form).
- Powerful shotgun combos like dual [Model 37s](/weapons/guns/model_37) can sometimes overpower the Mk-18 at close-range.
- The Mk-18 has a very long reload for a DMR, so take advantage of this while your opponent is reloading.
- A Mk-18 user with Infinite Ammo requires a change in tactics. 
    - Try and lure them into an enclosed space and overpower them with high DPS weapons.
    - Alternatively, use another high DPS weapon such as the [MCX Spear](/weapons/guns/mcx_spear) or [M1 Garand](/weapons/guns/m1_garand).

# Obtaining
The Mk-18 can be most easily found in the [Briefcase](/obstacles/briefcase), located at the [Armory](/buildings/armory_meta). It can also be found very rarely in [River Chests](/obstacles/river_chest). Like the [L115A1](/weapons/guns/l115a1), the Mk-18 can be found in [Gold Airdrops](/obstacles/gold_airdrop_crate) or by breaking [Flint Stones](/obstacles/flint_stone).

# Trivia
- In real life, the Mk-18 has a 10-round magazine. However, in Suroi it uses a custom 5-round magazine for gameplay balancing.
- S.W.O.R.D.'s website does not mention the word "Mjölnir" when talking about this gun.

# History
- [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0)
  - Added

