The **Baikal MP-153**, known in-game as the **MP-153** is a semi-automatic shotgun utilizing 12-gauge ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.26.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.26.0) "Horn of Plenty" update on May 5th, 2025. It shoots slug rounds, with high DPS and great accuracy.

# Background

# Strategies
## Using
- The MP-153 has a very high DPS, and has a low spread. This means it can be used at both close-range and long-range.
- You can spam the MP-153 to get the most out of the DPS, or you can use it as a sniper rifle.
- The MP-153 is best used when quickswitched with another sniper or a shotgun. This allows you to have high damage output at both close and long range.
- The [M3K](/weapons/guns/m3k) and [Model 37](/weapons/guns/model_37) are both good choices to pair with the MP-153. The Model 37 packs more damage, but the M3K may be better if you have an 8x or 15x scope and expect a lot of long-range engagements.
  - You can also pair it with a sniper rifle like the [Mosin-Nagant](/weapons/guns/mosin_nagant) to maximize long range effectiveness.
- Always reload bullets when not actively engaging, as the MP-153 takes 450ms to load each bullet (3.6 seconds for a full reload) and this saved time could win you a fight.
- Try and find a backpack as soon as you can, and pick up 12-gauge ammunition to make sure there's no risk of running out.

## Countering
- Be wary of the fact that a few well-placed shots can quickly finish you off, especially if you don't have good [Armor](/equipment/armor).
- The MP-153 can go toe-to-toe with many shotguns in terms of raw damage output, due to the high damage output, but a combination of quickswitching and use of cover and still yield results.
  - Dual [Model 37s](/weapons/guns/model_37) are very good for this, but a [Vepr-12](/weapons/guns/vepr12) works well too.
  - The long barrel of the MP-153 can also get in the way of fights that occur in tight spaces.
- Make sure to have high adrenaline and strafe the MP-153 user to try and get them to miss their shots.
- If at medium or close range, you can try to use weapons with a decent DPS, such as the [Mini-14](/weapons/guns/mini14) or the [SR-25](/weapons/guns/sr25) to pester the MP-153 user. With good aim and a little luck, you can even take them down this way.
- Even more powerful weapons, such as the [L115A1](/weapons/guns/l115a1) may be able to deal with a MP-153 due to their high per-shot damage.
- Early game, you may be able to force an opponent with the MP-153 and no [Backpack](/equipment/backpacks) to run out of ammo, since the MP-153 consumes ammunition relatively quickly.

# Obtaining
The MP-153 is found at the [Campsite](/buildings/campsite), in the [Campsite Crate](/obstacles/campsite_crate). It can also be found in Harvest Mode [Gold Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrops).

# Trivia
- The MP-153 is the only shotgun in Suroi to fire slug rounds.

# History
- [v0.26.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.26.0)
  - Added