The **MP 40 (Maschinenpistole 40)**, known in-game as the **MP40**, is a SMG utilizing 9mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.8.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.8.0) "Untrodden Lands" update on July 17th, 2023. It has decent DPS and very good accuracy for an SMG.

# Background

The MP 40 was designed by Heinrich Vollmer, taking inspiration from the MP 38. It was essentially a simplified version, using stamped steel instead of machined parts. Thus, it was cheap to produce and was used by the Axis powers as a paratrooper weapon as well as a sidearm for armored vehicles. The MP 40 itself was fairly reliable, but the 32-round magazines it came with often had feeding issues. After WW2, most MP 40s were captured and distributed by the Allies to developing countries.

# Strategies

## Using

- The MP40 is a useful early game against unarmored players or players with lower tier [Armor](/equipment/armor). However, later in a round, it becomes less effective due to the lower DPS and better armors of other players. It is a good idea to replace the MP40 with an assault rifle such as the [AK-47](/weapons/guns/ak47) or [AUG](/weapons/guns/aug).
- Try and get a 4x or 8x scope, as you can then take advantage of the MP40's good accuracy.
- The common 9mm ammunition is plentiful early-game, which makes the MP40 a decent pick.
- You can pair the MP40 with a shotgun for an effective early-game combo. Use the shotgun for close-range, and the MP40 for long-range or to finish off your opponent.

## Countering

- Assault rifles, DMRs, and LMGs are all effective counters to the MP40, as they have higher damage and more DPS than the more common MP40.
  - SMGs such as the [SAF-200](/weapons/guns/saf200) or [Micro Uzi](/weapons/guns/micro_uzi) can also work when used properly.
  - Pistols can also work, but be careful, as they may be even worse than the MP40.
  - Snipers can outrange the MP40 and do much more damage. Make sure to quickswitch to maintain mobility.
- Shotguns work very well against an MP40 user at close range.
- Stay behind cover such as [Rocks](/obstacles/rock) and [Trees](/obstacles/tree), as the MP40 has very low obstacle DPS and will burn up lots of ammo trying to destroy it.
- Despite many weapons being better than the MP40, don't underestimate it, as it is still deadly even late-game in the right hands.

# Obtaining

The MP40 is an extremely common drop from [Regular Crates](/obstacles/regular_crate) as well as [Flint](/obstacles/flint_crate)/[AEGIS Crates](/obstacles/aegis_crate) and is overall one of the most easily obtainable guns in the game.

# Trivia

- Prior to [v0.9.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.9.0), the MP40 had a 30-round magazine.
  - This is incorrect because the real-life MP40 uses 32-round magazines.

# History

- [v0.12.1](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.1)
  - Move speed penalty increased to 8% (from 7%)
  - Length decreased to 6.55 (from 6.9)
  - Image x-offset decreased to 76 (from 83)
- [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
  - Updated world image
  - Length decreased to 6.9 (from 10.1)
  - Left fist moved to (103, -2) (from (140, -5))
  - Right fist x-offset decreased to 40 (from 65)
  - Right fist z-index set to 4
  - Image moved to (83, -3) (from (100, 0))
  - Casing spawn moved to (4, 0.6) (from (3.5, 0.5))
- [v0.10.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
  - Firing speed penalty increased to 25% (from 10%)
  - Length increased to 10.1 (from 8)
  - Added casing particles
- [v0.9.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.9.0)
  - Magazine capacity increased to 32 (from 30)
  - Hand positions swapped
  - Ammo spawn amount increased to 96 (from 90)
  - Obstacle multiplier decreased to 1 (from 1.25)
  - Range increased to 130 (from 120)
  - Damage decreased to 11 (from 12)
- [v0.8.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.8.0)
  - Added

# Gallery

<Gallery
  images={[
    {
      url: "/img/articles/weapons/guns/mp40/mp40_ground.png",
      author: "1092384",
      caption: "A player finding a MP40 on the ground in v0.14.0",
    },
  ]}
/>
