The **Пулемёт Калашникова 1961**, translated to "Kalashnikov's machine gun 1961", known in-game as the **PK-61**, is a General Purpose Machine Gun (classified as an LMG for simplicity) that fires 7.62x54mmR rounds. It was added to the game in the [v0.24.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.24.0) "Rememberance" update on February 25th, 2025. It has high accuracy, high damage, and high DPS.

# Background

The PK-61 was developed in the Former Soviet Union to replace the outdated SGM and DP-28 machine guns. It featured a belt fed, gas-operated, open bolt design to improve cooling from firing large 7.62x54mmR rounds. The PK-61 was eventually replaced by the well-known PKM.

# Strategies

## Using

- The PK-61 has a very good fire rate, good damage, and good accuracy, leading to an excellent DPS. Use this to your advantage by pairing it with a 4x or 8x scope.
- Because of this, the PK-61 works most effectively at medium to long ranges.
- If an opponent hides behind destructible cover such as [Trees](/obstacles/tree), keep shooting. The PK-61 has an incredible 309 DPS to obstacles, and will rip through any destructible cover that your opponent may hide behind.
- Due to the slowdown from firing this gun, as well as a relatively long barrel, it is not recomended to use this at close range.
  - Pair with an SMG or shotgun to fend off opponents when they try to rush you.
  - Alternatively, pair with a sniper rifle, DMR, or assault rifle and keep your distance from your opponents.
- Beware when using this gun: the distinct firing sound and world image will make you public enemy #1.
- Because of the rarity, this can be used as a highly effective bait. Try laying a few [C4s](throwables/c4) and detonating them when an opponent steps too close.

# Countering

- At long range, snipers and DMRs will always be more accurate than the PK-61. Be sure to hide behind proper cover, move in evasive patterns, and take advantage of the slowdown caused by firing.
- At close range, you can use an SMG or shotgun and rush the PK-61 player.
- The PK-61 can easily rip through cover and shred you with its large magazine.
  - Therefore, don't hide behind destructible cover.
  - Try to move in zig-zag patterns, or hide behind indestructible cover.

# Obtaining

- The only way to get the PK-61 is to find one in the [Memorial](/buildings/articles/memorial).
- Keep in mind that the chance of a PK-61 being the loot from the crate is only 32%.

# Trivia

- The PK series machine guns are different from standard machine guns in that they are fed from the left (not the right).
- The 7.62x54mmR round featured in this gun was developed in 1891. That means that the PK series machine guns use a round that is 130 years old.
  - The 7.62x54mmR is the same round used in the Mosin-Nagant and SVD Dragnov.
  - The belt used in the PK-61 is the same as the Maxim machine gun used in WWI.
- The belt on this machine gun is not disintegrating, as most modern machine guns are.
- The PK-61 features a fluted outer barrel, whereas the modern PKM does not.

# History
- [v0.24.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.24.0)
  - Added
