The **ПП-19-01 «Витязь-СН» (PP-19-01 "Vityaz-SN")**, known in-game as the **PP-19 Vityaz** or simply the **PP-19**, is a suppressed SMG utilizing the 9mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0) "A Sailor's Dream" update on February 25th, 2024. Found only in [Gold Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrops), it has a fast fire rate similar to the [Vector](/weapons/guns/vector) but with higher damage.

# Background
The PP-19-01 Vityaz is a 9x19mm submachine gun developed in 2004 by a Russian small arms manufacturer Izhmash. It is based on the AK-74 and offers a high degree of parts commonality with the AK-74. The gun is directly developed from the PP-19 Bizon. "Vityaz" (витязь) is Russian for "brave warrior" or "knight". 

# Strategies

## Using
- The PP-19 consumes lots of ammo, so make sure to stock up on as much 9mm ammunition as you can.
- Using this weapon is very similar to using the [Vector](/weapons/guns/vector), so use it as you would use a vector.
- The big difference is that the PP-19 has much more range for the bullets, so it can be used as a medium-range weapon. However, the PP-19 has lower DPS compared to the Vector.
- One of the most effective ways to use this is to get close to your opponent to make sure they get hit with as many bullets as possible.

## Countering
- Hide behind indestructible [Obstacles](/obstacles), unless you have good armor and high damage weapons.
- When the opponent is reloading, take the opportunity and get a few shots at them, this will lower their health and make them unable to defend themselves.
- An effective measure is to have your opponent waste their ammo so that they have to use other weapons.
- Getting into the open when your opponent has a PP-19 might get you killed, but if it happens, try and strafe as many bullets as you can.

# Obtaining
The PP-19 is only found in [Gold Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrops) and [Flint Stones](/obstacles/flint_stone).

# Trivia
- The PP-19 is the third suppressed weapon to be added to the game, after the [VSS](/weapons/guns/vss) and [ACR](/weapons/guns/acr).
- The PP-19 in-game is the «Витязь-СН» ("Vityaz-SN") variant that features a Picatinny rail for optics, compared to the Warsaw Pact rail on the original model.

## History

- [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0)
  - Added
