<Event />

The **G17 (scoped)**, also known as the **Scoped Glock** or simply **G17**, is an automatic pistol that was added in the v0.12.0 "Trick-or-Tweak" update on October 29th, 2023. It has very low bullet damage and DPS, but infinite ammo and a speed boost when holding.

# Strategies

## Using

- On the Halloween 2023 map, the G17 is a very common drop from [Pumpkins](/obstacles/pumpkin).
  - It is worth getting one early to speed up looting.
- The G17 can also be used to escape from players if you are about to die.
  - Conversely, you can keep a G17 as your secondary gun to chase down other players.
- Use the G17's speed boost to strafe and dodge your opponent's bullets.
  - This can often waste entire magazines with little damage.
  - You can also use the speed boost to get up close with a high-DPS melee weapon such as a [K-bar](/weapons/melee/kbar).
  - In addition to melee weapons, SMGs and shotguns also work well paired with a G17.
- Don't use the G17 during the final circle, as the small area restricts movement and negates the speed boost advantage.

## Countering

- As aforementioned, you can keep a G17 as your secondary gun to chase down other G17 users.
  - Later in the game, as the circle is getting small, the G17's speed boost is not as valuable. Consider dropping it for a better secondary weapon.
- The G17 has very low damage per bullet and DPS, so unless the opponent runs away, they can be beaten with nearly any weapon, even a [G19](/weapons/guns/g19).
- Use a high-DPS CQC weapon such as a [ARX-160](/weapons/guns/arx160) or a [Micro Uzi](/weapons/guns/micro_uzi). The accuracy will make it easier to hit your opponent. Shotguns can also work well.
- G17 users are often not as aware of their surroundings, especially if they have an 8x or 15x scope. Try and blow up smoking [Barrels](/obstacles/barrel) or [Super Barrels](/obstacles/super_barrel) to kill or weaken them.
- Hide behind covers, as the G17 has a terrible obstacle DPS.

# Obtaining

The G17 has currently been obtainable in only two events.

- On the Halloween 2023 map, it had a 95% chance to drop from a Pumpkin.
- The G17 was also rarely acquired during the Suroi Weapon Swap Event upon killing another player with any gun.

# Trivia

- Despite having infinite ammo, the G17 uses the "6mm BB" ammo type. This confirms that the G17 is an airsoft gun shooting orange airsoft BBs
  - This means that the G17 is an airsoft version of the real-life Glock 17
- The brightly-colored tracers are caused by a tracer unit that has been mounted to the gun's muzzle
- At only 2, the G17 has the least damage per bullet of any gun in Suroi, ignoring the [radio](/weapons/guns/radio).

# History

- v0.14.0
  - Added dual-wielding, although the G17 cannot be dual-wielded
- v0.12.0
  - Added
