The **FAMAE SAF-200**, known in-game as the **SAF-200**, is a burst-fire SMG utilizing 9mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.4.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.4.0) "Supplies received" update on June 17th, 2023. It has decent DPS, good damage per bullet, and a common ammo.

# Background

The original SAF was a modified version of the SIG SG 540 assault rifle, which was produced under license in Chile in the 1980s. FAMAE shortened the gun and replaced the rotating bolt with a simpler blowback bolt to improve reliability, as well as added a bolt hold-open catch that locks the slide back after the final round is fired. The SAF-200 is a modernized variant of the original SAF that has a foldable and retractable stock, Picatinny rails for attachments, and a new handguard. The original SAF is in service with Brazil, Chile, and El Salvador police and military units, while the SAF-200 is being tested (although not officially adopted by the Chilean Army).

# Strategies

## Using

- The SAF-200 has the same range and comparable accuracy to the [MP40](/weapons/guns/mp40), which means it can be used at a longer range than other SMGs and shotguns.
  - Use a 4x or higher scope to take advantage of this.
- Because of the common 9mm ammunition, you can be more liberal with your ammo consumption.
  - The SAF-200 has the highest damage per magazine of any SMG, so it can be used to destroy some cover, although not as well as an assault rifle will.
  - This is not much of an advantage late-game, as most opponents will have better weapons.
- As with other burst-fire weapons, you can hide behind cover and "peek" out to fire a burst or two at your opponent.
- This weapon is often considered a weaker version of the [M16A4](/weapons/guns/m16a4).

## Countering

- The [M16A4](/weapons/guns/m16a4), also a burst-fire gun, is much more powerful than the SAF-200 and can easily counter it in all the same situations.
- Use adrenaline to strafe your opponent and make them miss their bursts.
- The SAF-200 has lower DPS than weapons such as other SMGs, assault rifles, and LMGs.
- A higher-DPS weapon such a [Micro Uzi](/weapons/guns/micro_uzi) or a shotgun, can easily dispatch a SAF-200 user at close range.
- At medium range, the low DPS of the SAF-200 makes it ineffective against [MP40](/weapons/guns/mp40) and assault rifles.
- At long-range, weapons such as DMRs and accurate assault rifles like the [MCX Spear](/weapons/guns/mcx_spear) will be very effective against an opponent with a SAF-200.

# Obtaining

The SAF-200 is a very common gun, and can be found from [Regular Crates](/obstacles/regular_crate), as ground loot, and readily found from [AEGIS](/obstacles/aegis_crate) and [Flint Crates](/obstacles/flint_crate).

# Trivia

- The SAF-200 was the first SMG to be added to Suroi.
- As a select fire gun, the SAF-200 can also fire semi-automatic or fully automatic.
- The SAF-200 has the second highest bullet damage per bullet of any 9mm weapon in Suroi, after the VSS.
  - Despite having lower damage per bullet than the [VSS](/weapons/guns/vss), it has slightly more damage per magazine than the VSS due to the larger magazine size.

# History

- [v0.13.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.13.0)
  - Fire delay increased to 75ms (from 50ms)
  - Burst delay decreased to 250ms (from 300ms)
- [v0.12.1](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.1)
  - Recoil duration decreased to 300ms (from 750ms)
- [v0.12.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.0)
  - Length increased to 5.9 (from 5.7)
  - Left fist moved to (95, -3) (from (90, 3))
  - Image x-offset increased to 71 (from 65)
  - Casing spawn x-offset decreased to 4 (from 5)
- [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
  - Updated world image
  - Length decreased to 5.7 (from 8.7)
  - Left fist moved to (90, 3) (from (130, -6))
  - Right fist x-offset decreased to 40 (from 65)
  - Right fist z-index set to 4
  - Image x-offset decreased to 65 (from 80)
- [v0.10.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
  - Length decreased to 8.7 (from 9)
  - Added casing particles
- [v0.9.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.9.0)
  - Damage decreased to 15.5 (from 16)
  - Obstacle multiplier decreased to 1 (from 1.2)
  - Range decreased to 130 (from 150)
  - Hand positions swapped
- [v0.8.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.8.0)
  - Reload time decreased to 1.8s (from 2s)
  - Obstacle multiplier decreased to 1.2 (from 2)
  - Moving spread decreased to 4° (from 8°)
  - Standing spread set to 3°
  - Fire delay decreased to 50ms (from 65ms)
  - Move speed penalty set to 8%
  - Bullet speed decreased to 0.25 (from 0.35)
  - Burst cooldown decreased to 300ms (from 500ms)
  - Damage increased to 16 (from 14)
  - Range increased to 150 (from 80)
  - Image x-offset decreased to 80 (from 100)
- [v0.7.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.7.0)
  - Damage increased to 14 (from 12)
- [v0.5.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.5.0)
  - Ammo type set to 9mm
  - Ammo spawn amount set to 90
  - Magazine capacity decreased to 30 (from Infinity)
  - Reload time set to 2s
  - Decreased damage to 12 (from 15)
  - Fire delay decreased to 65ms (from 80ms)
- [v0.4.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.4.0)
  - Added

# Gallery

<Gallery
  images={[
    {
      url: "/img/articles/weapons/guns/saf200/saf_200_ground.png",
      author: "1092384",
      caption: "A player finding a SAF-200 on the ground in v0.14.0",
    },
  ]}
/>
