The **Stoner Rifle-25**, known in-game as the SR-25, is a DMR utilizing 7.62mm ammunition. It was added to the game in the [v0.10.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.10.0) "Back with a Bang update on September 14th, 2023.

# Background

The SR-25 was designed by Eugene Stoner in the early 1990s for the Knight's Armament Company. Stoner combined the AR-10 with the direct-gas system of the AR-15, and various improvements from the M16A2 to create the SR-25. It has been used in small quantities by a small selection of special forces, police, and military around the world. Variants of the SR-25 are also sold to civilians. 

# Strategies

## Using

- The SR-25 can do 660 damage per mag (990 to obstacles), the highest of any DMR, and even higher than the [Mini-14](/weapons/guns/mini14). You can use this to destroy cover such as [Trees](/obstacles/tree) and [Rocks](/obstacles/rock).
- Like most DMRs, the SR-25 is most effective at maximum DPS. Click as fast as you can to get the most out of it.

## Countering

- Use high adrenaline to try and strafe the SR-25 user. This will often avoid much of the damage.
  - Attack while they are reloading.
- Take cover behind indestructible obstacles like [Oil Tanks](/obstacles/oil_tank).
  - Be careful around Rocks and Trees because the SR-25 can easily destroy them, and have plenty of bullets left to finish you off.
- If at close range, rush your opponent with a high-DPS weapon such as a shotgun or an SMG like the [Micro Uzi](/weapons/guns/micro_uzi).
- The Mini-14 has slightly worse stats compared to the SR-25 but is still an effective counter.

# Obtaining

The SR-25 is found in many of the same drops as the [Mini-14](/weapons/guns/mini14) and can also be found in [Airdrops](/obstacles/airdrops). These include [AEGIS](/obstacles/aegis_crate) and [Flint Crates](/obstacles/flint_crate) as well as other special locations. It can also be rarely found as ground loot.

# Trivia

- The loot image for the SR-25 is based specifically on a SR-25 E2 PR M-LOK.
  - "PR" stands for "Precision Rifle", and "M-LOK" is a rail interface system.
  - It has a 20" barrel and weighs 10.5 pounds.
- The "25" in "SR-25" comes from adding the numbers for the AR-10 and AR-15 together.
- 60% of the parts of the SR-25 are interchangeable with AR-15 and M16 style rifles.
- Eugene Stoner also designed the [Stoner 63](/weapons/guns/stoner_63) and the [M16A4](/weapons/guns/m16a4).

# History
- [v0.20.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.20.0)
  - Increased damage to 33 (from 23.5)
- [v0.16.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.16.0)
  - Casing spawn y-offset decreased to 0.4 (from 0.5)
- [v0.13.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.13.0)
  - Standing spread decreased to 1째 (from 2째)
  - Moving spread decreased to 3.5째 (from 5째)
- [v0.12.1](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.12.1)
  - Recoil duration increased to 190ms (from 150ms)
  - Length decrased to 7.2 (from 7.7)
  - Image x-offset decreased to 80 (from 90)
  - Casing spawn x-offset decreased to 4.2 (from 5)
- [v0.11.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.11.0)
  - Updated world image
  - Length decreased to 7.7 (from 11.4)
  - Left fist moved to (110, 0) (from (130, -6))
  - Right fist x-offset decreased to 40 (from 65)
  - Right fist z-index set to 4
  - Image x-offset decreased to 90 (from 130)
  - Tracer length set to 1.5
- [v0.10.0](https://github.com/HasangerGames/suroi/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
  - Added
